---
layout: homepage
---

## About me

It is my pleasure to meet you here. I am **Zhaoji Zhang(张 兆骥 in Simplified Chinese)**, a graduate student from Peking University. After 4-year hard work at Peking University, I earned 2 Bachelor of Science on **Chemical Biology** and  **Intelligence Science and Technology**(also known as AI). I am persuing my Ph.D. in Integrated Life Science at Center of Life Science(CLS)@PKU-THU(2025-). Currently I am still in rotation, and willing to explore different aspects of neuroscience labs.

My curiosity about Neuroscience, especially circuit, computation, and system neuroscience, has led me to be an intern at [Yatang-Li's Lab](https://yatanglilab.cibr.ac.cn/en/) at the Chinese Institute for Brain Research, Beijing (CIBR, Beijing) and finally led me into integrated life science program at Center for Life Science, Academy for Advanced Interdisciplinary Studies, Peking University.

[My undergraduate_academic transcript](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1somZXkrMlVg3rWUyF3WMa0-Za7p0GWp_/view?usp=sharing) and [my resume](https://github.com/Zhang-Zhaoji/Zhang-Zhaoji.github.io/blob/main/assets/files/Resume.pdf) are available for a deeper look into my academic journey, and you can find my research profile on [ORCID](https://orcid.org/0009-0002-3293-1961). 

If you want to contact me, please email me at 2501111571@stu.pku.edu.cn or zhang-zj@stu.pku.edu.cn. Checking my student e-mail is one of my daily routine, so I would respond that in around 24 hours.

## Research Interests

- **Neuroscience:** circuit-system neuroscience, dendritic computing, Saliency Detection & Perception, Visual Encoding&Decoding, BMI/BCI.
  -  Currently I am thinking a novel idea of dendritic plasticity. Following the traditional Rosenblatt's Perceptron computing mechanism($y = f(w^Tx+b)$), Artificial Neural Networks have create a new era. However, as proposed by [David Beniaguev and Michael London](https://elsc.huji.ac.il/people-directory/faculty-members/michael-london/) in [Single cortical neurons as deep artificial neural networks](https://www.cell.com/neuron/fulltext/S0896-6273(21)00501-8), the neuron is not just a simple point and a non-linear function as Perceptron assumed. On the countrary, the dendritic computation is relatively way more complex. They used a DNN to mimic neuron, but actually the model might be simplified as few logical gates and a single soma non-linear function. Since the synapses could be modelled as [AND NOT gate and OR gate](https://www.cnbc.cmu.edu/~tai/readings/nature/koch_neuron.pdf), we want to develop a searching algorithm (including genetic algorithm), to reconstruct or even design a graph-based neuronal dendritic morphological model.
  -  Another more biological idea is to find if we could discover synapse-level position shift or exchange. the position exchange between OR gate is not that important, while exchange OR gate with AND NOT gate would cause great influence at a relative low cost. We want to figure out if there are similar mechanisms in real biological systems.
  -  I am also looking forward to join a lab which values computation and experiment at the same time, for computation makes us understand the mechanism, and experiment enables us to examine our ideas and always guides our approach. 
- **Computer Vision:** Saliency Detection, Video Saliency Detection, segmentation.
  - I want to build a giant dataset of dashboard camera recordings of traffic accidents. Although lot of efforts have been put in this fields since 2016 [Anticipating Accidents in Dashcam Videos](https://github.com/smallcorgi/Anticipating-Accidents), we still have the chance to build a dozens-of-thousand-video dataset with fine language labelling at near zero cost, if we use online Danmaku(弹幕) comments as language labels. If you are not familar with Danmaku, you may visit [one video with some Danmaku](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1gc4uzZEP6/), and the colored texts floating around are what people referred as Danmaku.
  - Another interesting problem is to train model to do new jobs like segment octopus and do pose estimations (which is quite complex due to its flexibility).
- **Multi Agent Reinforcement Learning:** It is very cool to discover how herd, octopus, and other multi-agent dynamical system behave. How do they perform such complex behaviors through very simple computaion techniques, just like our brain, ANN, and superconductivity?
- Recently I have learned some basic electronic skills including Arduino&ESP programming, Soldering, and PCB designation. Maybe I would put them into use in our lab in the future. Molecular Biology (also organic chemistry) experiments are always boring, time consuming, highly repetitive and tedious for human experimenters. What if we do a little coding here?

## News

- 2025 September: I attended [The 18th Annual Meeting of Chinese Neuroscience Society(CNS) at Xi'an](https://cns.org.cn/2025/). We held a poster at P15-46, and published [our abstract](https://cns.org.cn/upload/2025/25051515545179.pdf) online. However, the full work is not published, we may not send out private data but might be available soon. During the conference I met a couple of my old friends and (ex)colleagues, and attend several inspiring sessions, including those held by Songting Li, Kexin Yuan, Xinyu Zhao, Zengcai Guo, Huihui ZHang, Athena Akrami, Qianli Yang, Jiayi Zhang and other successful researchers.
- 2025 September: I entered Prof. Fang Fang's Lab at School of Psychological and Cognitive Sciences, Peking University for the first rotation position, and doing some computational modeling of Rhythmic Attention Sampling.
- 2025 September: I have a great time talking to Prof. Kexin Yuan At Tsinghua University and Yixiao Gao, a PhD student who developed the VIVIT technique. We had a lot of fun, wish we could have more collebration in the future.
- 2025 August: Attend the first neuro-morphic computing summer camp(第一届类脑计算特训营) held by Guangdong Institute of Intelligence Science and Technology (GDIIST) at Hengqin district, Zhuhai city, Guangdong province, China. We talked a lot about the neuro-morphic computing, the Brainpy framework, and advanced neuroscience topics. Prof. Songting Li from STJU gave us a talk about dendritic computing and small-world network, which makes me realized that the logic computing on dendrites could be a really complex as well as powerful tools for neuron computing.  I also talked with Dr. Tao Tang and Dr. Yan Chen at GDIIST, they both are very successful researchers and willing to talk to any dedicated students, thus we had a great time.
- 2025 August: Our poster of biological plausible saliency detection is going to be displayed on the CNS 2025 conference at Xi'an, Shaanxi, China in the late September, 2025. 
- 2025 July: I just graduate from Peking Univ at 02/07/2025. Currently I am still continuing research at **CIBR**. Maybe after August I would have more personal time to travel around the world(or just in china). But it turned out that I worked there for around 2 full months, using their 4 ✖ A100 GPUs to do some extra deep-learning works. 
- 2025 April: We have published our research about Saliency Detection in mouse Superior Colliculus(SC) Recently on **Communications Biology** in the name of [Preference-independent saliency map in the mouse superior colliculus](https://www.nature.com/articles/s42003-025-08006-x). I would say it is a underrated decision because saliency detection is such an important problem and mouse SC may give us a alternative way to think about it, in another way besides triditional Zhaoping's V1 Saliency hypothesis.

